Kamala Harris Mouths Off On Senate Floor Condoleezza Rice Smacks Her Down Hard
the chairman I'd like to restate my
objection from earlier for the record
which is my motion to postpone this
hearing a number of comments have been
made by my honored and respected
colleagues I'd like to address a few of
them one there was some mention of a
concern about Elena Kagan's hearing and
that the White House at the time there
was an agreement that those certain
records are sensitive and should
therefore not be disclosed it's my
understanding that is a point of
distinction between that time and today
that those were active cases in the
White House and for that reason there
was an understanding and agreement that
they were of a sensitive nature and
should not be disclosed in terms of the
point that has been made about playing
politics and blaming the Supreme Court I
think that we have to give pause when
those kinds of concerns are expressed to
also think about the fact that there
have been many a political campaign that
has been run indicating an intention to
use the United States Supreme Court as a
political tool to end things like the
Affordable Care Act the Voting Rights
Act in campaign finance reform which
makes this conversation a legitimate one
in terms of a reasoned concern about
whether this nominee has been nominated
to fulfill a political agenda as it
relates to using that court and the use
of that court as it relates to the
42,000 documents or 42,000 pages of
documents I find it interesting that we
get those documents less than 24 hours
before this hearing is scheduled to
begin but it took 57 days for those
documents to be vetted before we would
even be given those documents so there's
some suggestion that we should be speed
readers and read 42 pages 42 thousand
pages of documents in about 15 hours
when it took the other side 57 days to
review those same documents so the logic
at least on the math is not applying
now the Chairman has requested 10% of
the nominees documents that's 10% of
100% of his full record the nominees
personal lawyer has only given us 7% of
his documents 7 out of 100 percent of
the full record Republicans have only
given 4% of these records are made in
public
that's 4% of 100% of a full record 96%
of his record is missing 96% of his
record is missing it is reasonable it is
reasonable that we should want to review
his entire record and then we can debate
among us the relevance of what is in his
record to his nomination but it should
not be the ability of this the
leadership of this committee to
unilaterally make decisions about we
what we will and will not see in terms
of its admissibility instead of arguing
about the weight of whatever is made
admissible the late Senator Kennedy of
Massachusetts call these hearings a
Supreme Court nominees quote job
interview with the American people and
by that standard the nominee before us
is coming in to his job interview with
more than 90% of his background hidden I
would think that anyone who wanted to
sit on the nation's highest court would
be proud of their record and would want
the American people to see it I would
think that anyone privileged to be
nominated to the Supreme Court of the
United States would want to be confirmed
in a process that is not under a cloud
that respects due process I would think
that anyone nominated to the Supreme
Court of the United States would want to
have a hearing that is characterized by
transparency and fairness and integrity
and not shrouded by uncertainty and
Bishan and concealment and doubt we
should not be moving forward with this
hearing the American people deserve
better than this so judge Cavanaugh as
most of us know and I will mention to
you and you have young children and and
and I and I know they're very proud of
you and I know you are a great parent
and and I applaud all that you have done
in the community and so as you know as
we all know this is a week when most
students in our country go back to
school and it occurs to me that many
years ago around around this time I was
starting kindergarten and I was a bus in
a bus a school bus on my way to Thousand
Oaks elementary school as part of the
second class of students as busing
desegregated Berkeley California public
schools this was decades after the
Supreme Court ruled brown v board of
education that separate was inherently
unequal and as I've said many times had
Chief Justice Earl Warren not been on
the Supreme Court of the United States
he could not have led a unanimous
decision and the outcome then of that
case may have been very different had
that decision not come down the way it
did I may not have had the opportunities
that allowed me to become a lawyer or
prosecutor I'd likely would not have
been elected District Attorney of San
Francisco or the Attorney General of
California and I most certainly would
not be sitting here as a member of the
United States Senate so for me a Supreme
Court seat is not only about academic
issues of legal precedent or judicial
philosophy it is personal when we talk
about our nation's highest court and the
men and women who sit on it we're
talking about the impact that one
individual on that court can have impact
on people you'll never meet and whose
names you will never know whether a
person can exercise their constitutional
right to cast a ballot that may be
decided
if judge Cavanaugh sits on that Court
whether a woman with breast cancer can
afford health care
or is forced off life-saving treatment
whether a gay or transgender worker is
treated with dignity
or maybe treated as a second-class
citizen whether a young woman who got
pregnant at 15 is forced to give birth
or in desperation go to a back-alley for
an abortion whether a president of the
United States can be held accountable or
whether he'll be above the law
all of this may come down to judge
Cavanaugh's vote and that's what's at
stake in this nomination and the stakes
are even higher because of the moment
we're in and many of us have discussed
this these are unprecedented times as
others have already observed less than
two weeks ago the president's personal
lawyer and campaign chairman were each
found guilty or pleaded guilty to eight
felonies the president's personal lawyer
under oath declared that the president
directed him to commit a federal crime
yet that same president is racing to a
point to a lifetime position on the
highest court in our land a court that
very well may decide his legal fate and
yes that's essentially what confirming
judge Kavanaugh could mean so it is
important more important I say than ever
that the American people have
transparency and accountability with
this nomination and that's why it is
extremely disturbing that Senate
Republicans have prevented this body and
most important the American people from
fully reviewing judge Cavanaugh's record
and have disregarded just about every
tradition and practice that I heard so
much about before I arrived in this
place
judge Cavanaugh when you and I met in my
office
you said whether
spec to judicial decisions that rushed
decisions are often bad decisions I
agree with you I agree with you and when
we are talking about who will sit on the
Supreme Court of the United States I
believe your point couldn't be more
important
mr. Czech mr. chairman when judge
Kavanaugh was nominated in July he
expressed his belief that a judge must
be independent must interpret the law
and not make law but in reviewing this
nominees background I am deeply
concerned that what guides him is not
independence or impartiality
it's not even ideology I would suggest
it is not even ideology what I believe
guides him and what his record that
we've been able to see shows is what
guides this nominee is partisanship this
nominee has devoted his entire career to
a conservative Republican agenda helping
to spearhead a partisan investigation
into President Clinton helping george w
bush's legal team ensure that every vote
was not counted in Bush v Gore helping
to confirm partisan judges and enact
partisan laws as part of the Bush White
House and in all of these efforts he has
shown that he seeks to win at all cost
even if that means pushing the envelope
and if we look at his record on the DC
Circuit and in his recent writings and
statements it is clear that the nominee
has brought his political bias to the
bench he has carried out deeply
conservative partisan agendas as part as
a judge favoring big business over
ordinary Americans polluters over clean
air and water and the powerful over the
vulnerable just last year judge
Cavanaugh praised the dissent in roe v--
wade and ruled against a scared
seventeen-year-old girl seeking to end
her pregnancy
he has disregarded the Supreme Court
precedent to argue that undocumented
workers weren't really employees under
our labor laws we have witnessed
horrific
mass shootings from parkland to Las
Vegas to Jacksonville Florida yet judge
judge Kavanagh has gone further than the
Supreme Court and has written that
because assault weapons are quote in
common use assault weapons and
high-capacity magazines cannot be banned
under the Second Amendment when he was
part of an Independent Counsel
investigation into the Democratic
president the nominee was dogged in
demanding answers and yet he has since
changed his tune arguing that presidents
should not be investigated or held
accountable a position that I am sure is
not lost on this president these
positions are not impartial they are
partisan judge Neal Gorsuch judge
Cavanaugh's classmate insisted before
this committee that judges are not
merely quote politicians and robes
I fear that judge Cavanaugh's record
indicates that is exactly what he may
very well be now I know members of this
committee and the nominees friends and
colleagues have assured us that he is
devoted to his family and supportive of
his law clerks and volunteers in his
community and I don't doubt that at all
but that's not why we are here
I rather that we think about this
hearing in the context of the Supreme
Court of the United States and the
impact it will have on generations of
Americans to come and do we want that
court to continue a legacy of being
above politics and unbiased or are we
prepared to participate in a process
that is tainted and that leaves the
American public questioning the
integrity of this process and I'll close
by saying this we have a system of
justice that is symbolized by a statue
of a woman holding scales and she wears
a blindfold justice wears a blindfold
because we have said in the United
States of America under our judicial
system justice should be blind to a
person's status
we have said that in our system of
justice justice should be blind to how
much money someone has to what you look
like or who you love to who your parents
are in the language they speak and every
Supreme Court justice must understand
and uphold that ideal and sir should
those cases become become before you
judge Kavanagh I am concerned whether
you would treat every American equally
or instead show allegiance to the
political party and the conservative
agenda that has shaped and built your
career what I am concerned your loyalty
would be to the president who appointed
you and not to the Constitution of the
United States these concerns I hope you
will answer during the course of this
hearing I believe the American people
have a right to have these concerns I
also believe the American public has a
right to full and candid answers to the
questions that are presented to you
during the course of this hearing I will
be playing of course very close
attention to your testimony and I think
you know the American public will be
paying very close attention to your
testimony thank you I'm really honored
to join that Lisa Blatt and Rob Portman
in introducing Brett Kavanaugh at these
hearings to consider his confirmation as
a Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States of America my personal
relationship with judge Kavanaugh goes
back 17 years to our time as White House
colleagues in the administration of
George W Bush those were remarkable
times and I loved serving they were
however not easy times and the guidance
and counsel of those with whom I worked
was both the joy and a blessing I am so
grateful to have had Brett Kavanaugh as
a colleague he was always supportive and
strong and caring and someone whose
integrity and good judgment I valued
enormous Lee I knew Brett early in his
years as a family member as a matter of
fact I was there when he married Ashley
I remember well the birth of his
children he is the great father and
husband and son in short he's just a
very good human being since the
nomination of Brett Kavanaugh I have
been able to reflect back on those times
and what my experience tells me about
Brett in this crucial role many have
given testimony to his extraordinary
legal mind the depth of his experience
his intellect and his good common sense
you have heard and you will hear from
his clerks and other jurists and great
legal thinkers as well as colleagues
from throughout his career I do not need
to repeat their praise only the sight to
say that I know firsthand that bread is
really really smart here's the bread
Cavanaugh that I know he is hard-working
he has a sense of humor he seeks truth
in facts there is no detail too small to
gain his attention he makes those around
him better bread is wise he is an old
soul who is made to help steady us in
these complicated times
Brett listens especially to those with
whom he disagrees and in our charged
environment when we have become almost
tribal living in echo chambers and often
finding comfort in the company of only
those with whom we agree this is an
indispensable quality for the
responsibilities of the Supreme Court
the only thing that would be better is
if Brett had gone to the same college
that his mentor and friend Anthony
Kennedy went to that would be Stanford
University but for that I'll forgive him
and I have to say Yale University seems
to have done a pretty good job in recent
weeks we've also had the chance to
reflect on our Constitution the Supreme
Court itself and the trust that we place
in the justices of it as a scholar and
as a diplomat I have watched the
struggle of people across the world to
achieve democracy and to keep it every
day
I am more amazed by the brilliance of
the institutional design that the
framers left to us they carefully
balanced powers and responsibilities
between the three branches of government
knowing that human beings are fallible
they constructed institutions that both
enable and constrain those who would
govern us scholars often speak of the
American spirit of constitutionalism we
Americans believe that the Constitution
is our personal protection
we take our rights very seriously and we
will go all the way to the Supreme Court
if we think those rights have been
violated a democracy is only stable when
there is that kind of trust in the
institutions a belief that those
institutions will be fair and just and
secure the rights of citizens the
strength of America's institutions is a
cause for optimism but they cannot be
taken for granted the Supreme Court's
special role in protecting the careful
balances that the Constitution seeks to
achieve is crucial to our democratic
stability this is true even as times and
customs change and it is more important
with every passing year in our
increasingly complicated nation as a
little girl born in segregated
Birmingham Alabama who grew up to be
Secretary of State
I know personally our country's long
journey to guarantee equal rights I know
the power of the Constitution and I know
the gift of our democracy the Supreme
Court is a crucial guardian both of our
Constitution and of our democracy that
is why I am so honored to introduce
Brett Kavanaugh for these hearings he
will be an outstanding Supreme Court
justice his intellect is unquestioned
his judgment is highly regarded and I
can personally attest to his character
and integrity as a colleague
Brett Kavanaugh will thoroughly and
faithfully uphold the trust that is our
heritage the Constitution of the United
States of America
the most remarkable governing document
in human history thank you thank you god
bless you and God bless america